Date: 2008-11-11 13:23:22
Flags: draft
Description:
Categories: Uncategorized
Keywords:
Summary:

## 16 consecutive days of working

I think I've gone past the exhaustion phase and have started moving into the getting sick phase.  I've really got to take it easy for the rest of the week.  I don't want to get sick just because I worked too hard.  Unfortunately this might also mean I should skip this Saturday's D&amp;D game again.  I know it's a fun activity, but it does require a lot of effort to make it a fun game.  I don't want to trade 1 type of work for another type.  I'll have to see how the next few days turn out.  I figure I'll just go home and watch TV for the rest of the week.  Try to numb the brain as much as I can.  No thinking allowed; so no science shows.

On another note, I forgot to call my mother on her birthday yesterday.  I of course worked all day and didn't leave the office until 10:30 PM.  Thankfully I finally remembered on the way home.  The thing is that she lives 2 time zones away so when I called it was just after midnight.  At least there was a message on the answering machine when she woke up.  I tried to call again today but she was off doing something else.  I'll probably talk to her again on the weekend.

Speaking of the weekend; during the ride to work this morning Elizabeth suggested that we go to a new comedy club in Kirkland.  She has asked a few times so I'm guessing she really wants to go.  I'm crossing my fingers that I don't also have to work this weekend again.  If I don't then we definitely will go there.  I <strong>love</strong> comedy clubs! Well…I guess I should say I love comedy.  Those TV shows that show the comics doing their route at the clubs are just as good for me.  I can drink my own booze and laugh at home.  Ah well, you have to socialize sometime and normally the ticket price is fairly low.  Not to mention once you go to the club once they mail you buy 1 get 1 free coupons for the rest of your life.
