Date: 2010-03-17 21:55:09
Flags: commented
Description: An overly complex fizz-buzz implementation
Categories: C#, programming
Keywords:
Summary: An overly complex fizz-buzz implementation

# FizzBuzz test in C\# #

I've been looking at developer job related web sites to see what kinds of "things" are being used in interviews. There are a few programmer challenges that people are using to weed out the less capable developers. In particular the one called [Fizz-buzz test][1] is quite amazing to me. It isn't the simplicity of the challenge that gets me it is the fact that so many cannot write it during the interview. I would assume that any level of developer can easily complete this code. Although I keep seeing examples all over the web about how current *(2010)* job candidates cannot write it.

So, what the heck! Another example of how it can be done.

The challenge is to print all numbers from 1 to 100. When a number is divisible by 3 print "Fizz" instead. And when the number is divisible by 5 print "Buzz" instead. Lastly print "Fizz-Buzz" if the number is divisible by both 3 and 5.

**_Warning: This is overly complex to avoid being used in an interview_**

    :::c-sharp
    void Main()
    {
        Console.WriteLine(
            Enumerable.Range(1, 100)
                .Aggregate(new StringBuilder(), (sb, i) => sb.AppendLine(fizzBuzz(i)))
                .ToString());
    }

    string fizzBuzz(int i)
    {
        var isRule3 = i % 3 == 0;
        var isRule5 = i % 5 == 0;

        if(isRule3 && isRule5) return "Fizz-Buzz";
        if(isRule3) return "Fizz";
        if(isRule5) return "Buzz";
        return i.ToString();
    }

[1]: http://imranontech.com/2007/01/24/using-fizzbuzz-to-find-developers-who-grok-coding
